Information technology is a vital corporate asset and should be protected at all times.
However, when travelling we face additional risks and the following are some tips
to protect yourself and the company from criminals.
Before travelling,
ensure you understand your IT security policy and how to access further support, if required.
If you are travelling to a high-risk country where your data might be stolen,
you may have to take clean or loan devices and consider extra precautions like privacy screens.
Loaner devices mean your usual device is not exposed to risk.
Leave all non-essential devices at home,
such as personal tablets and e-readers.
Remove any sensitive data from your devices,
and clear your history and recycle bin before you depart.
Update software for all devices and apps.
Turn off wireless and Bluetooth when you are not using them, and enable screen lock.
Be aware that the types of luggage you travel with could advertise
your valuable devices to criminals, such as laptop bags.
If you aren't using your device, power it down.
This optimises encryption software performance.
If you must carry sensitive information with you,
always carry it in your hand luggage.
Always be discreet when working in public places. You never know who is watching.
Use a privacy screen.
Never leave any of your devices or luggage unattended.
Always connect using a VPN,
then tether your phone.
Public Wi-Fi should be avoided without a VPN.
Check Wi-Fi network name is correct and if you must use public Wi-Fi,
never install software to go online.
If your device is lost or stolen,
report it immediately to your IT department and manager.
Or, if you observe anything suspicious,
or suspect devices have been compromised while travelling,
turn off for the rest of the trip,
and immediately report it to IT upon your return.